Add cookbooks for package and scala scripts (#174)
VirtusLab/scala-cli: website/docs/cookbooks/scala-scripts.md

---
title: Use scala-cli to run Scala Scripts
sidebar_position: 3 
---

> ### Run 

Reviewer: I think we miss  explanation what Scripts are and how they differ from .scala sources (worksheet mode, no main method required etc.)

> To run your Scala scripts without any setup enviromnet, just use `scala-cli` to run it:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use `scala-cli` to run Scala scripts (no further setup is required):
```

```scala name:HelloScript.sc
val sv = scala.util.Properties.versionNumberString

def printMessage(): Unit =
  val message = s"Hello from Scala ${sv}, Java ${System.getProperty("java.version")}"
  println(message)

> printMessage()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
val message = s"Hello from Scala ${sv}, Java ${System.getProperty("java.version")}"
println(message)
```

```

```scala-cli
scala-cli run HelloScript.sc
```

<!-- Expected:
Hello from Scala *, Java *
-->

> Or you can add shebang header and run as Scala Script like `bash` scripts. Thus, to run Scala Script, `PATH` must contain` scala-cli` path.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, add a shebang header to your script, make your script executable, and execute it directly. `scala-cli` needs to be installed for this to work.
```

```scala name:HelloScriptSheBang.sc
#!/usr/bin/env scala-cli
val sv = scala.util.Properties.versionNumberString

> def printMessage(): Unit =
>   val message = s"Hello from Scala ${sv}, Java ${System.getProperty("java.version")}"
>   println(message)
> 
> printMessage()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
val message = s"Hello from Scala ${sv}, Java ${System.getProperty("java.version")}"
println(message)
```

```

```bash
chmod +x HelloScriptSheBang.sc
./HelloScriptSheBang.sc
# Hello from Scala 2.13.6, Java 16.0.1
```

> ### Debug 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Watch mode
```

> ### Watch mode

Reviewer: What I am missing here is a section that will explain that all other features from  non-sctipts work with scripts and this includes watching for change, dependencies management etc. so this sections needs to be transformed a bit

> ScalaCli provides debug mode using the `--watch` parameter to observe all files and re-run project if it detects a change in at least one file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Pass `--watch` to the Scala CLI to watch all sources for changes, and re-run them upon changes.
```

---
title: Use scala-cli to run Scala Scripts
sidebar_position: 3 
---

### Run 

To run your Scala scripts without any setup enviromnet, just use `scala-cli` to run it:

```scala name:HelloScript.sc
val sv = scala.util.Properties.versionNumberString

def printMessage(): Unit =
  val message = s"Hello from Scala ${sv}, Java ${System.getProperty("java.version")}"
  println(message)

printMessage()
```

```scala-cli
scala-cli run HelloScript.sc
```

<!-- Expected:
Hello from Scala *, Java *
-->

Or you can add shebang header and run as Scala Script like `bash` scripts. Thus, to run Scala Script, `PATH` must contain` scala-cli` path.

```scala name:HelloScriptSheBang.sc
#!/usr/bin/env scala-cli
val sv = scala.util.Properties.versionNumberString

def printMessage(): Unit =
  val message = s"Hello from Scala ${sv}, Java ${System.getProperty("java.version")}"
  println(message)

printMessage()
```

```bash
chmod +x HelloScriptSheBang.sc
./HelloScriptSheBang.sc
# Hello from Scala 2.13.6, Java 16.0.1
```

### Debug 

ScalaCli provides debug mode using the `--watch` parameter to observe all files and re-run project if it detects a change in at least one file.

```bash

> scala-cli run --watch HelloScript.sc

Reviewer: can't run be omitted here?

Author: We can't run this command because the `--watch` parameter waits indefinitely for changes, so docs_checker gets blocked

Reviewer 2: Yeah, we can remove `run` here:
```suggestion
scala-cli --watch HelloScript.sc
```

---
title: Use scala-cli to run Scala Scripts
sidebar_position: 3 
---

## Scala Scripts

> Scala Scripts are files containing Scala code without main method required. These codes of scala do not require build-tools configurations. To run Scala Scripts very quickly without waiting for warn-up build-tools, you can use `scala-cli`.

Reviewer: this is not precise
